
Software Design
Document
for

<Project>
Version 1.0 approved
Prepared by <author>
<organization>
<date created>
 
1.1 Contents
REVISIONS	ii
1 INTRODUCTION	1
1.1 PURPOSE	1
1.2 SYSTEM OVERVIEW	1
1.3 DEFINITIONS, ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS	1
1.4 SUPPORTING MATERIALS	1
1.5 DOCUMENT OVERVIEW	1
2 ARCHITECTURE	2
2.1 OVERVIEW	2
2.2 COMPONENT 1..N	2
3 HIGH-LEVEL DESIGN	3
4 LOW-LEVEL DESIGN	4
4.1 MODULES OVERVIEW	4
4.2 MODULE SPECIFICATIONS	4
4.2.1 Module X1	4
4.2.2 Module X2	5
APPENDIX A – GROUP LOG	6
1.2  Revisions
Version	Primary Author(s)	Description of Version	Date Completed
Draft Type and Number	Full Name	Information about the revision. This table does not need to be filled in whenever a document is touched, only when the version is being upgraded.	00/00/00



<This template serves as a basis for a Software Design Specification.  As in the SRS document, all italics refer to the “comment” style. Comments in blue are general and apply to any SDS, these that are in black are applicable specifically for this course. This template is based on the work by Karl. E Wiegers, Steve McConnel of CXOne group and the IEEE standards.>
 
1.3 Introduction
Purpose
System Overview
<Brief high-level description of system structure, functionality, interactions with external systems, system issues, etc.
Definitions, Acronyms and Abbreviations
< List any project definitions and acronyms introduced to the project by this design. 
Supporting Materials
<Note any references or related materials here.
Document Overview

2 Architecture
<The architecture provides the top level design view of a system and provides a basis for more detailed design work. This is the section where you should include your High-Level design Component Diagram.
2.1 Overview
<This section provides a high level overview of the structural and functional decomposition of the system. Focus on how and why the system was decomposed in a particular way rather than on details of the particular components. Include information on the major responsibilities and roles that the system (or portions of it) must play.
2.2 Component 1..n
<Describe an element (subsystem, component, etc...) from architecture in further detail. When appropriate, include information on how the element is further broken down and the interactions and relationships between these subcomponents.

3 High-Level Design
<This section describes in further detail elements discussed in the Architecture. Normally this section would be split into separate documents for different areas of the design. 
High-level designs are most effective if they attempt to model groups of system elements from a number of different views.
3.1 View / Model Component 1..n
<Provide a description and diagrams of a system component or set of components that describes a clearly defined view or model of the entire system or a subset of the system.

